# immunoai
Improving the Representation, Interpretability, and Prediction of Cancer Neoantigen Immunogenicity.


Predicting immunogenicity from the neoantigen protein sequences presents an interesting but challenging therapeutic opportunity across a variety of cancer types. Cancer cells express MHC-I proteins bound to short ~9-12 amino acid peptides on their surface. These complexes serve as CD8+ T-cell targets, and as such, the neoantigen peptides can be used to prime the immune system and elicit a tumor-specific response, while sparing potential toxicity to normal cells and healthy tissue. However, a current challenge exists when predicting whether or not a presented neoantigen will elicit an immunogenic response, as only a small fraction of presented peptides may be immunogenic. In addition, interpreting the physicochemical properties that are responsible for this immunogenicity also remains difficult. Moreover, given the clinical administration of neoantigen cancer vaccines is often restricted to allow only a subset of mutations for encapsulated neoantigen delivery (e.g., ~20-35 mutations), selection/ranking of mutations that are most likely to elicit a tumor-specific immunogenic response is of critical importance when designing cancer vaccines from a patient’s mutations. With the relative scarcity of data available for cancer immunogenicity across different HLA proteins, predicting this property from protein sequences across patients with different HLA alleles serves as an important property prediction task.
